23/05/20 - 
Firstly computer networks were used to facilitate the exchange of information between people and computers it also gave the ability to share physical resources, sharing printers and storing devices.
a small network of close by computers are call LAN (local area networks). Example of LAN is ethernet which is a singular cable connected to a series of computers, the information is transferred into an electrical signal onto computers, each computer has a special mac address to which it can check whether information is meant to be received. The approach is calls carrier sense multiple access. Bandwidth is the rate at which a carrier can transmit data. Computers often experience data collisions when 2 or more computers send out data at the same time, ethernet has solved this by giving each computer a random waiting time period before sending information out again during a collision if collision occurs again, wait time will increase. The behavior of exponentially growing wait time is called exponential backoff, this frees up the network by decreasing collision rates. A shared carrier (devices on one ethernet cable) is called a collision domain, by dividing the collision domains by using a Network switch. This division allows for 2 or more sides of networks, and so if one computer are on the same side this reduces the possibility of collision with computers on the other side. Routing is connecting 2 distant computers or networks, swithcing lines to more available ones is called circuit switching because it is switching whole circuits to route traffic to correct destination. Banks and military often use private lines to reduce sharing and faster speed(?). Message switching is sending information with the use of stops, this allows for different routes.Hop count is the number of hops a message takes along a route, this can help identify problems (routing error). it is difficult to send big messages in message switching due to its size which can clog up the network and makes it slower since it has to go through every stop, so to solve this the message is divided into packets which goes through message switching as well, every packet has a destination. That format is called internet protocol and the process is called packet switching 

